PLAN.md, before:

# Development plan

Global Directory is a centralized catalog system for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) metadata. Provides typed client libraries (Node.js, Bash/CLI, Terraform) backed by schema-validated JSON in OCI Object Storage.

Instruction for the operator: keep the development sprint by sprint by changing `Status` label from Planned via Progress to Done. To achieve simplicity each iteration contains exactly one feature. You may add more backlog Items in `BACKLOG.md` file, referencing them in this plan.

Instruction for the implementor: keep analysis, design and implementation as simple as possible to achieve goals presented as Backlog Items. Remove each not required feature sticking to the Backlog Items definitions.

## Sprint 1 - Foundation Data Model

Status: Done
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1. Build foundation data model

## Sprint 2 - sprint 1 bug fix

Status: Progress
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1-fix1. Remove `realm` attribute from tenancies json data file

<!-- TODO: Define your Sprints below. Each Sprint references Backlog Items from BACKLOG.md. Example format:

## Sprint 1 - <Sprint Name>

Status: Planned
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1. Title of backlog item

## Sprint 2 - <Sprint Name>

Status: Planned
Mode: YOLO
Speed: FAST

Backlog Items:

* GD-2. Title of second item

-->

Commit message:

chore: (sprint-3) mark sprint complete — GD-2 done
PLAN.md Sprint 3 status: Progress → Done.
PROGRESS_BOARD Sprint 3 + GD-2: documented → done.

PLAN.md, after:

# Development plan

Global Directory is a centralized catalog system for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) metadata. Provides typed client libraries (Node.js, Bash/CLI, Terraform) backed by schema-validated JSON in OCI Object Storage.

Instruction for the operator: keep the development sprint by sprint by changing `Status` label from Planned via Progress to Done. To achieve simplicity each iteration contains exactly one feature. You may add more backlog Items in `BACKLOG.md` file, referencing them in this plan.

Instruction for the implementor: keep analysis, design and implementation as simple as possible to achieve goals presented as Backlog Items. Remove each not required feature sticking to the Backlog Items definitions.

## Sprint 1 - Foundation Data Model

Status: Done
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1. Build foundation data model

## Sprint 2 - sprint 1 bug fix

Status: Rejected
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1-fix1. Remove `realm` attribute from tenancies json data file

## Sprint 3 - Establish versioning strategy for data and access layer

Status: Done
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-2. Establish versioning strategy for data and access layer

<!-- TODO: Define your Sprints below. Each Sprint references Backlog Items from BACKLOG.md. Example format:

## Sprint 1 - <Sprint Name>

Status: Planned
Mode: managed

Backlog Items:

* GD-1. Title of backlog item

## Sprint 2 - <Sprint Name>

Status: Planned
Mode: YOLO
Speed: FAST

Backlog Items:

* GD-2. Title of second item

-->
